prep release: v2.2.0 (#7361)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

```
// Thread 1              |  // Thread 2
let _rg1 = lock.read();  |
                         |  // will block
                         |  let _wg = lock.write();
// may deadlock          |
let _rg2 = lock.read();  |
```

This fix removes an opportunity for reentrant locking while extracting a Datadog identifier.

There is also a potential for deadlocks when the root and active spans' `Extensions` are acquired at the same time, if
multiple threads are attempting to access those `Extensions` but in a different order. This fix removes a few cases
where multiple spans' `Extensions` are acquired at the same time.

By [@carodewig](https://github.com/carodewig) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7142

### Check if JWT claim is part of the context before getting the JWT expiration with subscriptions ([PR #7069](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7069))

In https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930 we introduced [logs](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930/files#diff-7597092ab9d509e0ffcb328691f1dded20f69d849f142628095f0455aa49880cR648) in `jwt_expires_in` function which causes a lot of logs when using subscriptions.

> It also unveils a bug in the subscription implementation with JWT. Indeed if there was not JWT claims in the context, before we set a timeout set at `Duration::MAX`. Now it's always pending and there's no timeout anymore.

Author: ```suggestion
It also corrects a bug in the subscription implementation when JWT claims were not set in the context which would result in the use of a `Duration::MAX` when that was not the intention.
```

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning v2.0.0](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

# [2.2.0] - 2025-04-28

## 🚀 Features

### Add support for connector header propagation via YAML config ([PR #7152](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7152))

Added support for connector header propagation via YAML config. All of the existing header propagation in the Router now works for connectors by using
`headers.connector.all` to apply rules to all connectors or `headers.connector.sources.*` to apply rules to specific sources.

Note that if one of these rules conflicts with a header set in your schema, either in `@connect` or `@source`, the value in your Router config will
take priority and be treated as an override.

> ```

Author: ````suggestion
```yaml
````

```

By [@andrewmcgivery](https://github.com/andrewmcgivery) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7152

### Enable configuration auto-migration for minor version bumps ([PR #7162](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7162))

To facilitate configuration evolution within major versions of the router's lifecycles (e.g., within 2.x.x versions), YAML configuration migrations are applied automatically. To avoid configuration drift and facilitate maintenance, when upgrading to a new major version the migrations from the previous major (e.g., 1.x.x) will not be applied automatically. These will need to be applied with `router config upgrade` prior to the upgrade.  To facilitate major version upgrades, we recommend regularly applying the configuration changes using `router config upgrade` and committing those to your version control system.

By [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7162

### Allow expressions in more locations in Connectors URIs ([PR #7220](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7220))

Previously, we only allowed expressions in very specific locations in Connectors URIs:

> 1. A path segment, like `/users/{.id}`
> 2. A query parameter's _value_, like `/users?id={.id}`

Author: ```suggestion
1. A path segment, like `/users/{$args.id}`
2. A query parameter's _value_, like `/users?id={$args.id}`
```

Expressions can now be used anywhere in or after the path of the URI.
For example, you can do

> `@connect(http: {GET: "/users?{.filterName}={.filterValue}"})`.

Author: ```suggestion
`@connect(http: {GET: "/users?{$args.filterName}={$args.filterValue}"})`.
```

> Note: Parts of this feature are only available when composing with Apollo Federation v2.11 or above (currently in preview).

By [@dylan-apollo](https://github.com/dylan-apollo) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7220

### Enables reporting of persisted query usage by PQ ID to Apollo ([PR #7166](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7166))

This change allows the router to report usage metrics by persisted query ID to Apollo, so that we can show usage stats for PQs.

By [@bonnici](https://github.com/bonnici) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7166

### Instrument coprocessor request with http_request span ([Issue #6739](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/6739))

Coprocessor requests will now emit an `http_request` span. This span can help to gain
insight into latency that may be introduced over the network stack when communicating with coprocessor.

Coprocessor span attributes are:
* `otel.kind`: `CLIENT`
* `http.request.method`: `POST`
* `server.address`: `<target address>`
* `server.port`: `<target port>`
* `url.full`: `<url.full>`
* `otel.name`: `<method> <url.full>`
* `otel.original_name`: `http_request`

> By [Jon Christiansen](https://github.com/theJC) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6776

Author: ```suggestion
By [@theJC](https://github.com/theJC) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6776
```

### Enables reporting for client libraries that send the library name and version information in operation requests. ([PR #7264](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7264))

Apollo client libraries can send the library name and version information in the `extensions` key of an operation request. If those values are found in a request the router will include them in the telemetry operation report.

By [@calvincestari](https://github.com/calvincestari) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7264

### Add compute job pool spans ([PR #7236](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7236))

The compute job pool in the router is used to execute CPU intensive work outside of the main I/O worker threads, including GraphQL parsing, query planning, and introspection.
This PR adds spans to jobs that are on this pool to allow users to see when latency is introduced due to
resource contention within the compute job pool.

* `compute_job`:

>   - `job.type`: (`QueryParsing`|`QueryParsing`|`Introspection`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `job.type`: (`query_parsing`|`query_planning`|`introspection`)
```

* `compute_job.execution`
  - `job.age`: `P1`-`P8`

>   - `job.type`: (`QueryParsing`|`QueryParsing`|`Introspection`)

Author: These were snake-case, rather than camelcase, in the 1.x release line.  Is that intentionally different?

Reviewer: No, these should be snake case. It also an edit we had to do for the 1.61.5 release we just did.

Author: fixed.

> * `compute_job`:
>   - `job.type`: (`QueryParsing`|`QueryParsing`|`Introspection`)
> * `compute_job.execution`
>   - `job.age`: `P1`-`P8`
>   - `job.type`: (`QueryParsing`|`QueryParsing`|`Introspection`)

Author: ```suggestion
* `compute_job`:
  - `job.type`: (`query_parsing`|`query_planning`|`introspection`)
* `compute_job.execution`
  - `job.age`: `P1`-`P8`
  - `job.type`: (`query_parsing`|`query_planning`|`introspection`)
```

>   - `job.type`: (`QueryParsing`|`QueryParsing`|`Introspection`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `job.type`: (`query_parsing`|`query_planning`|`introspection`)
```

### Fix potential telemetry deadlock ([PR #7142](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7142))

The `tracing_subscriber` crate uses `RwLock`s to manage access to a `Span`'s `Extensions`. Deadlocks are possible when
multiple threads access this lock, including with reentrant locks:
```
// Thread 1              |  // Thread 2
let _rg1 = lock.read();  |
                         |  // will block
                         |  let _wg = lock.write();
// may deadlock          |
let _rg2 = lock.read();  |
```

This fix removes an opportunity for reentrant locking while extracting a Datadog identifier.

There is also a potential for deadlocks when the root and active spans' `Extensions` are acquired at the same time, if
multiple threads are attempting to access those `Extensions` but in a different order. This fix removes a few cases
where multiple spans' `Extensions` are acquired at the same time.

By [@carodewig](https://github.com/carodewig) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7142

### Check if JWT claim is part of the context before getting the JWT expiration with subscriptions ([PR #7069](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7069))

> In https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930 we introduced [logs](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930/files#diff-7597092ab9d509e0ffcb328691f1dded20f69d849f142628095f0455aa49880cR648) in `jwt_expires_in` function which causes a lot of logs when using subscriptions.

Reviewer: @bnjjj Do we know what version of the router this was?

Author: The merge commit from the linked PR suggests it was https://github.com/apollographql/router/releases/tag/v2.1.0: https://github.com/apollographql/router/commit/381debe6f268cb2b0e1d964f20e0709ee67e7ed8

> In https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930 we introduced [logs](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930/files#diff-7597092ab9d509e0ffcb328691f1dded20f69d849f142628095f0455aa49880cR648) in `jwt_expires_in` function which causes a lot of logs when using subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Router 2.1.0](https://github.com/apollographql/router/releases/tag/v2.1.0) we introduced [logs](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6930/files#diff-7597092ab9d509e0ffcb328691f1dded20f69d849f142628095f0455aa49880cR648) in `jwt_expires_in` function which causes a lot of logs when using subscriptions.
```

Author: you and i had similar suggestions on both lines at the same time.  i went with mine on this line, which is basically the same.  😄

> It also unveils a bug in the subscription implementation with JWT. Indeed if there was not JWT claims in the context, before we set a timeout set at `Duration::MAX`. Now it's always pending and there's no timeout anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also revealed a bug where even if there was no JWT claims in the context we set a subscription timeout.
```

By [@goto-bus-stop](https://github.com/goto-bus-stop) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7205

### Entity-cache: handle multiple key directives ([PR #7228](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7228))

This PR fixes a bug in entity caching introduced by the fix in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6888 for cases where several `@key` directives with different fields were declared on a type as documented [here](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/graphos/schema-design/federated-schemas/reference/directives#managing-types).

For example if you have this kind of entity in your schema:

```graphql
type Product @key(fields: "upc") @key(fields: "sku") {
  upc: ID!
  sku: ID!
  name: String
}
```

By [@duckki](https://github.com/duckki) & [@bnjjj](https://github.com/bnjjj) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7228

### Relax percent encoding for Connectors ([PR #7220](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7220))

Characters outside of `{ }` expressions will no longer be percent encoded unless they are completely invalid for a

> URI. For example, in an expression like `@connect(http: {GET: "/products?filters[category]={.category}"})` the

Author: ```suggestion
URI. For example, in an expression like `@connect(http: {GET: "/products?filters[category]={$args.category}"})` the
```

By [@vatsalpatel](https://github.com/vatsalpatel) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/6105

### Update Dockerfile exec script to use `#!/bin/bash` instead of `#!/usr/bin/env bash` ([Issue #3517](https://github.com/apollographql/router/issues/3517))

For users of Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Cloud Run platform, using the router's default Docker image was not possible due to an error that would occur during startup:

```sh
"/usr/bin/env: 'bash ': No such file or directory"
```

To avoid this issue, we've changed the script to use `#!/bin/bash` instead of `#!/usr/bin/env bash`, as we use a fixed Linux distribution in Docker which has the Bash binary located there.

By [@lleadbet](https://github.com/lleadbet) in https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7198

### Remove "setting resource attributes is not allowed" warning ([PR #7272](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/7272))

If Uplink is enabled, Router 2.1.x emits this warning at startup event though no user configuration or other choice is responsible for it:

```
WARN  setting resource attributes is not allowed for Apollo telemetry
```

This removes the warning entirely as it’s not particularly helpful.

> Reproduction:
> 
> ```
> APOLLO_KEY=secret APOLLO_GRAPH_REF=starstuff@current cargo run
> ```
> 

Author: I don't think this reproduction matters to anyone reading the changelog 😄 

````suggestion
Reproduction:

```
APOLLO_KEY=secret APOLLO_GRAPH_REF=starstuff@current cargo run
```

````
